README.md, before:

# CS160-Team-4-OFS

This is an online food delivery service website where users can shop online (browse through items, add to cart, place orders, etc) and simulate having their orders delivered to them by autonomous delivery robots.

## User Guide

### API Key

1. Go to `https://console.cloud.google.com/` and sign-up/login.

2. Using the search bar look for and enable the following APIs:

    - `Address Validation API`

    - `Distance Matrix API`

    - `Places API`

    - `Routes API`

3. Click on the button for the Navigation Menu on the top left of the page, then go to `APIs & Services`.

4. From this page nagivate to `Credentials` > `+ CREATE CREDENTIALS` > `API key`.

5. After a delay, it should display your API key. 

#### Optional (Restricting Your Key)

1. Under `API Keys` click on the three vertical dots at the end right next to `SHOW KEY`, then click on `Edit API key`.

2. Under `API restrictions` select `Restrict key`.

3. Using the drop-down menu select the 4 APIs mentioned earlier.  

4. Click `SAVE`, it will take up to 5 minutes for the restrictions to take into effect. 

### Installation

1. Clone this repository onto your local machine with the following command

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/rKim19300/CS160-Team-4-OFS.git
    ```

2. `cd` into the project directory

    ```sh
    cd CS160-Team-4-OFS
    ```

3. Open the `.env_example` file in the project root directory and follow what the comments inside the file say. Below is the contents of `.env_example` for reference

    <details>

    <summary>.env_example</summary>

    ```sh
    GOOGLE_API_KEY_BACKEND=API_KEY_HERE

    # Rename this file from ".env_example" to ".env"
    # replace API_KEY_HERE with your Google Maps API key 
    # IMPORTANT: NEVER PUSH THE .env FILE TO GITHUB
    ```

    </details>

4. Build and run the application with the command below (if you don't have Docker, you can install it [here](https://www.docker.com/get-started/))

    ```sh
    docker compose up --build
    ```

    > The first time you build the application, it will take some time to get everything up and running. This is normal

5. Open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser

### User Types

There are 3 types of users: `Managers`, `Employees`, `Customers`

**Some features on this website can only be used depending on the type of user you are logged in as.** Users with the `manager` user type can access and use everything.

Below are the credentials for the two `manager` accounts (doesn't matter which one you use)

* email: `admin@admin.com`, password: `admin`
* email: `johndoe@gmail.com`, password: `password`

> When you create an account through the signup page, you are making a `customer` account. Only `managers` can create `employee` accounts through their private dashboard

### Map

The map is only visible for `Managers` and `Employees`. It allows them to view the orders on the map and the which orders are assigned to which delivery robot.

- ***Delivery Conditon***: There are three conditions in which robots are sent out automatically. 

    1. They have `10` orders on their route. 

    2. Their orders reach exactly `200` pounds. 

    3. It has been `2` hours since the youngest order on their route has been placed.

## Demo

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m7qFAKbfneDhALq54WVmTPY3VvbCT7Ev/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m7qFAKbfneDhALq54WVmTPY3VvbCT7Ev/view?usp=sharing)

Commit message:

Added a new API key to frontend with limited uses per day. Changed the messages in OrderMap and Checkout if an HTTP 500 response occurs.  Updated README.md.

README.md, after:

# CS160-Team-4-OFS

This is an online food delivery service website where users can shop online (browse through items, add to cart, place orders, etc) and simulate having their orders delivered to them by autonomous delivery robots.

## User Guide

### API Key

1. Go to `https://console.cloud.google.com/` and sign-up/login.

2. Using the search bar look for and enable the following APIs:

    - `Address Validation API`

    - `Distance Matrix API`

    - `Places API`

    - `Routes API`

3. Click on the button for the Navigation Menu on the top left of the page, then go to `APIs & Services`.

4. From this page nagivate to `Credentials` > `+ CREATE CREDENTIALS` > `API key`.

5. After a delay, it should display your API key. 

#### Optional (Restricting Your Key)

1. Under `API Keys` click on the three vertical dots at the end right next to `SHOW KEY`, then click on `Edit API key`.

2. Under `API restrictions` select `Restrict key`.

3. Using the drop-down menu select the 4 APIs mentioned earlier.  

4. Click `SAVE`, it will take up to 5 minutes for the restrictions to take into effect. 

### Installation

1. Clone this repository onto your local machine with the following command

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/rKim19300/CS160-Team-4-OFS.git
    ```

2. `cd` into the project directory

    ```sh
    cd CS160-Team-4-OFS
    ```

3. Open the `.env_example` file in the project root directory and follow what the comments inside the file say. Below is the contents of `.env_example` for reference

    <details>

    <summary>.env_example</summary>

    ```sh
    GOOGLE_API_KEY_BACKEND=API_KEY_HERE

    # Rename this file from ".env_example" to ".env"
    # replace API_KEY_HERE with your Google Maps API key 
    # IMPORTANT: NEVER PUSH THE .env FILE TO GITHUB
    ```

    </details>

4. Build and run the application with the command below (if you don't have Docker, you can install it [here](https://www.docker.com/get-started/))

    ```sh
    docker compose up --build
    ```

    > The first time you build the application, it will take some time to get everything up and running. This is normal

5. Open `http://localhost:3000` in your browser

### User Types

There are 3 types of users: `Managers`, `Employees`, `Customers`

**Some features on this website can only be used depending on the type of user you are logged in as.** Users with the `manager` user type can access and use everything.

Below are the credentials for the two `manager` accounts (doesn't matter which one you use)

* email: `admin@admin.com`, password: `admin`
* email: `johndoe@gmail.com`, password: `password`

> When you create an account through the signup page, you are making a `customer` account. Only `managers` can create `employee` accounts through their private dashboard

### Map

The map is only visible for `Managers` and `Employees`. It allows them to view the orders on the map and the which orders are assigned to which delivery robot.

- ***Delivery Conditon***: There are three conditions in which robots are sent out automatically. 

    1. They have `10` orders on their route. 

    2. Their orders reach exactly `200` pounds. 

    3. It has been `2` hours since the youngest order on their route has been placed.

- ***IMPORTANT***: The map can only be loaded a limited number of times per day. If the window which contains the map says "Oops! Something went wrong", try again in 60 seconds.  If the message still persists, then the maximum number of loads per day has been reached and should reset in about 24 hours.  

## Demo

[https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m7qFAKbfneDhALq54WVmTPY3VvbCT7Ev/view?usp=sharing](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m7qFAKbfneDhALq54WVmTPY3VvbCT7Ev/view?usp=sharing)
